We all have different stories
to tell.
Sometimes about the same events.
Sure, when times are good,
we might
remember things the same way.
But when times are tough,
when some things happen
that might not be easy
to talk about or look at,
that's when we must fight
to find the truth.
Aubree, my love...
I've been having that feeling,
like something bad is coming.
Seems I was right.
I shouldn't have left.
I thought I was running
from not being able
to provide for you
the way I wanted.
But turns out...
I was running from myself.
Just let me...
let me finish my letter.
Who you writing to?
Family, back home
in Louisiana.
I've always wanted to go there.
Why is that?
I heard the food was good.
This arrow, it ain't yours
by any chance?
Might be.
Hmm.
- Fighting over?
- For now.
- But you always come back.
- I'm not them.
I couldn't carry out my orders.
I'm done.
And I don't know what to do now.
Not that it matters.
You can leave.
Go back to your family.
Those men in uniforms
don't take too kindly
to deserters.
If I go back now,
I put my family at risk.
Then head the other way.
Further west.
That an invite?
If you need one.
They're not gonna kill you.
Well, that's a relief.
Can you... can you tell them
I said thank you?
I spoke to the others
about you staying.
It's gonna take time for some
not to see you as an enemy.
Well, I guess we lead
by example.
Thank you for helping me,
for giving me sanctuary.
It's a place you go
to find peace.
It's safe.
Teach me more of those words.
Long as you teach me
some of yours.
Hey. Thought I'd make
myself useful
by making the weapon
that got me.
Calian, what's wrong?
I have some news.
From town?
From the sheriff who's been
mailing your letters.
He received a message
from Louisiana.
From my family?
I know you're gone,
but I still need to do this,
to write to you.
Maybe it's a way
to keep your memory alive.
To remind myself of us.
Maybe it's to tell
this part of our history.
You must be Augustus.
Calian said
you'd be coming in.
Sheriff.
Take a seat.
Want some water?
Thank you.
My condolences
about your family.
Wasn't your fault.
Not being there.
Back home.
Sheriff, I'm here to
turn myself in for desertion.
Jail time
or the firing squad.
Heavy consequences
for desertion.
I'm aware of that.
So you do blame yourself.
I can't live my life
as a fugitive.
And I got somebody
up there now
that's looking down on me.
I won't let her down again.
So will you take me
to Fort Worth
so I can face my charges?
I think there's another way
to handle all this.
How's that?
I need a new deputy.
Someone I can trust
to watch my back...
You're offering me a job?
It was Calian's idea, actually.
And I have to say,
the more he talked,
the more I liked.
Educated, speak more than one
language, military experience...
Sheriff, you want a deserter
for a deputy?
Well, son,
the way I understand it,
you made a tough choice.
Saw your enemy eye to eye.
Easier to squeeze that trigger.
And here you are,
making another tough choice.
Rather than be a criminal,
you want to face
the consequences,
even when you know
that could mean death.
Wearing the badge
comes with hard choices.
And you strike me as a man
who's made them
his whole life.
I never considered being
a lawman.
Neither did I.
Calian said you deserve
a new life.
This could be your chance
to find it.
This badge needs you
more than you need it.
Sometimes when we feel like
it's the end of a story,
a life, a new one
presents itself in ways
that makes us want
to live again,
to write a new chapter.
To find purpose.
One more thing.
Calian told me
your last deputy was killed.
Found in a ravine,
shot in the back.
You didn't attend his funeral.
You killed him, didn't you?
I had to. He turned on me.
On this town.
Just 'cause you wear the badge
doesn't mean you're
above the law.
I'll remember that.
Let me show you the town, Deputy.
Whether it's
by choice or circumstance,
folks come from all over
for a new life out west.
While some embrace
the opportunity,
others are simply escaping
a past.
Or maybe themselves
as they step foot
off their stagecoach.
Hey! Hey!
Thanks for your support.
Can always use
more prostitutes there,
now that the train's coming,
little lady.
Why don't you try
calling me that again,
see how unladylike I can be.
Good morning, sir.
You wouldn't, by any chance,
be looking for some assistance
with all of your, um...
whatever it is that
you do here? I...
Uh, I mean, I can't say that
I've castrated a bull
or skinned a bear
in the technical sense,
but I'm more than willing
to learn.
I am seeking gainful employment,
preferably indoors.
You know, that town's
gonna get a whole lot busier
with the train coming through.
Hi. I...
Yeah, you can sit here
in the shade if you want.
Thank you.
Oh.
Did you ever have
one of those days where you,
you just want to crawl
into a hole
until it's all over with,
you get a new one?
Don't mind the bitter days.
They give the sweet ones
their flavor.
I always hated when my father
would talk like that.
Offering wisdom
like a simple recipe.
And here I am.
All right, I could sit
out here all day, but...
You need to find a job?
I do need to find a job.
Honestly, I'm pretty certain
of where I'll end up,
but I thought I'd get
the lay of the land
while I could.
We're all searching for a home.
A place where we feel
like we belong.
Mm. Thank you.
Sometimes that place
is actually a person...
Someone left this behind,
but I think it is yours now.
...who seems to know you already...
...without having to say much.
That's ridiculous.
No more sun.
Thank you.
What is that? Huh?
Kicking in place
with frowns on your faces.
Obstinate toy soldiers!
I should do the show myself.
Better than the cadavers
I see before me.
You know what, get out. Out!
Go!
And don't come back
until you care.
That was inspiring.
Excuse me?
You know, you could have
offered up something
that you like.
You could have walked them
through what you expect
- without all the...
- Buzz off, little bee.
Tone. Charming.
I heard you were hiring.
Toilet scrubber.
50 cents a day,
dollar room and board.
Help now!
Hey.
You okay?
You know, you can't talk
to people that way.
You need to be careful
with people. They're fragile.
Come again?
The show.
Th-There's no spontaneity.
They don't,
they don't feel safe.
You talking about my dancers?
Well, they're not yours.
They need to feel free
up there, they need to feel
like they can reinvent themselves.
Any other ideas?
Dollar a day,
free room and board,
I'll help you run things.
Who are you? Huh?
Well, I have a colleague,
whispered in my ear
about her time here, memories.
She said, uh, it might suit me.
You know, it feels like
I'm auditioning for you.
You are.
Hmm.
Afternoon, Deputy.
Oh. Afternoon.
Yeah, you must be running
the show over there at Hagan's.
Oh, I-I'm running a show.
I wouldn't say
I'm running the show.
For the moment, anyway.
- You have a lovely day.
- You, too.
It's awful powerful to see
how transformative it can be
to feel like you have a home.
A community.
People who share your way
of looking at the world.
It anchors you and gives you
stability and strength.
Without it, hell,
it can feel
like you're a tumbleweed
blowing in the wind.
Sometimes the path we're on
is clouded by the ones
who brought us into this world.
Mama... why are we back here?
Thought we'd swing by
where you were born
while we pass through.
Why didn't we stay?
'Cause it was nothing back then.
And it's not much better now.
You tired of seeing
the world with me?
You want to put down roots
and quit living?
Never.
That's my Hoyt.
All right, you ready
to take some money
from some people
that don't need it?
What's the play?
You be adorable,
flash those big blues
while Mama cleans up.
When I give you the signal,
act like your tummy aches
to high heaven.
Let's go have some fun.
- Good evening, sir.
- Good evening to you, miss.
- Nice boots, cowboy.
- Thank you, young man.
- Ah, I'm so sorry.
- Well, that's okay, ma'am.
How high can you count, mister?
Pretty high, young fella.
One, two, three... ♪
Help me! Oh, God. Aah!
It feels like there's eels
in my tummy
squirming to get out!
Now take it easy, son.
Try to stay calm
and tell us where it hurts.
Oh, it seems the good Lord's
punishing me
for all those delicious lollipops.
Well, how many did you eat?
Young man, where are
your parents?
- Oh!
- Let's get you to the doctor.
Thanks for opening
your hearts to us.
Hey, where's my watch?
Lollipop city, kid.
Stella Rawlins.
No, I'm, um...
I'm Beatrice Farley.
You used that one in Gallop.
And then you used Lenora Carrol
in Corpus Christi.
Ma'am,
you're under arrest
for robbery, theft,
public indecency.
Mama.
I need, I need to get him
to the Reyes ranch
outside of town.
You're coming with me
right now.
Okay.
Okay, Hoyt, this is
what you're gonna do.
- Listen to me...
- I'll find you,
bust you out, Mama.
My little outlaw.
I will come back for you
as soon as I settle all this.
Come on, ma'am, let's go.
I always knew
it'd end this way.
I love you, Mama.
Even if we could
outrun those clouds
that follow us
our whole lives,
deep down we'd know
we just missed the rain.
Feel like I seen you before.
Maybe I just got
one of those faces.
You waiting for the train?
Train?
Train come all the way
out here?
So, what'd
the three-legged dog say
when he walked in the saloon?
"I'm looking for the man
who shot my paw."
So, how you gonna do it?
Now, what's that?
Catch... the train.
Ah.
I'm thinking I, uh,
let you distract 'em,
then ride up the other side
where they ain't looking.
It seems kind of easy, don't it?
So, you making small talk
'cause you're ready
to partner up?
I lost my only good partner
a long time ago.
Ain't looking for a new one.
Well, that's too bad.
You, uh...
You got any more jokes?
No more ruining my punch lines.
You got to be kidding me.
What have I gotten myself
into now?
Hello.
Hoyt Rawlins?
Lucia Reyes.
Are you going in there?
- Well, H-Hagan's was all booked.
- Huh.
For some reason
I don't believe you.
Well, why don't we
stroll up there, find out?
Stay the night.
And what would I tell
my family?
I don't know, you left town.
This old song.
Oh, you love this song.
You know, you still haven't
given me a good reason
why you won't sing it with me.
Whenever I'm in town,
I walk by the sheriff's
and look at the new
wanted posters.
Sadly, that's the only way
of knowing
if you might pass through.
Look, it's hard for me
to be here, Lucia.
Some good memories.
Some not so good.
You're just like her.
I read the paper.
Even the Pinkertons are
after you now.
Maybe next time, Hoyt.
Boss just sent me
for his laundry.
- Just one second.
In the back.
- Of course.
What the hell?
Say, did you hear that news
about the preacher
in Angel Springs?
He died last night in the loving
embrace of a White Dove.
I hope his prayers
were answered.
Oh, yeah, somehow
I feel like they were.
- I'll see you tomorrow, Kai.
- Tomorrow.
In trouble again?
Just need to hide out
for a minute.
Oh, got you something.
Don't make a deal out of that.
What is this?
Well, with me all over
and you here,
I figure I'd give you a look
into the world out there.
They're calling 'em
"post cards."
Thank you.
Yeah.
You sure I can't help?
Uh, food. Anything?
You know, there is something
you can do for me.
Any chance you know how
to make me some priestly garb?
I don't know if you heard,
but Angel Springs
is in the need
of a new preacher.
Well, any town
with a distillery,
that's the Holy Land for
laying low in my good book.
They say blood
is always thicker.
But for those of us
with no kin...
...we'll take water,
whiskey, even tea.
Gambling may seem
like an individual sport,
but every move you make is tied
to the others playing the game.
Woo-hoo-hoo-hoo!
That's my fourth--
wait, no, fifth roll.
Hey, what can I say?
The sun shines a little brighter
on some of us.
Ain't that right, big brother?
You sure you're not
shaving those down?
Maybe rounding the corners with
those cactus hands of yours?
Yeah, who's cheating now?
Trying to take
my throwing arm out, huh?
What's the matter, Aunt T?
The meeting not go well?
Let's just say Liam Collins has
sprouted himself a conscience.
If he had a problem
with the plan,
he should've told us weeks ago.
- So what gives?
- Not what, who.
He went and got married.
Brought her along with him.
And she sounds like
a real church bell.
Opinionated, high-minded.
He said she made him want
to be a better husband.
She does sound terrible.
I don't like it.
She could go and ruin everything,
if she hasn't already.
And he can't be trusted.
You want to get rid of him?
- All right.
- Ah, yeah, the missus, too.
Why don't we just
ride out to Boston,
- slaughter the whole family?
- Okay, yeah, we should.
Oh, goodness, I don't know
about all that,
but he's right about the girl.
- Fetch me some soda water,
would you?
- All right.
Oh, and some ice
would be nice, too.
Yeah, sure thing, Aunt T.
How are we gonna find somebody
to replace Collins?
Well, you could go.
I'm already sheriff
of Texarkana.
Why don't you send Shane?
He would love it out there.
Your brother couldn't find
his own behind
if he had both his hands
in his back pockets.
Besides, he's loyal
to that daddy of yours.
You've been living
in a railroad town.
You can work this
to our benefit.
What's to work?
Independence, it's...
Unkept, uncivilized. I know.
That's why we were gonna send
that Collins boy, but...
Independence could be
the first town
we build from the ground up.
We always knew this day
was gonna come.
As long as that railroad keeps
barreling out west,
so are we.
Besides, it's time
you show that family of yours
what you can do.
Take your seat at the table
before that brother of yours
comes along and steals it
right out from under you.
And you don't have to like it.
But you'll do it.
For family.
I'm sorry, are you telling me
I can't take all my belongings?
They won't fit in the wagon?
I have to leave things behind?
Well, no. Some of them can.
You just have to be real picky.
Yeah, like you could take
a bunch of little things
or just a few big things.
Thank you,
that's-that's helpful, um...
I'm sorry, I just need
a moment to decide.
The-the trunk of clothes, please.
Um, all the books, art supplies.
People change our lives
in ways we never expect.
Sometimes they come along
before we ever knew
they were there.
And the piano, please.
Ma'am, are you sure?
Th-This piano belonged
to my grandmother.
We-we used to play it every day.
Look, I've left
everything I know
and everyone I love
to come here.
This-- it's the last piece
I have of my family.
The good parts of it, anyway.
And I'll be damned if it's left
to rot here in the sun.
Now, if you'll excuse me,
I have to go find my husband.
"I dream with my eyes open."
Hello? Hello!
Yes?
Uh, I'm Abby.
Abby Collins. I know.
Our husbands spoke
back in Wichita.
He's gonna be sheriff,
you're gonna be a schoolteacher.
Yes, that's right.
Um, uh, perhaps you'd like
- to sit down, and we can...
- No, thank you. I just came over
to ask you to kindly
shut the hell up.
Excuse me?
For the past week I have
listened to you gripe
about the heat, the rocks
in those fancy shoes,
and you banging
on that damn piano
all hours of the night.
I'm terribly sorry to have
bothered you with the music.
- I didn't think it mattered
out here.
- Why?
'Cause people like us
don't matter?
That's not what I said.
I may not have fancy frocks
or the art,
but you'll see that
none of that matters out here.
All that matters is family.
Now, if you don't mind...
Hey, are you all right?
Something's wrong.
I have some dresses for cloth.
We need water now.
And for God's sake,
get this woman some shade!
I'll be right back, sweetheart.
I can't pay for those dresses.
I don't want your money.
Despite what you may
think of me,
we're women, and in a way
that makes us family.
You got any kids?
Uh, the, the family I have,
I didn't think it was right.
Then I met my husband,
and he reinspired my faith.
He's your people.
I lied earlier.
Your song, it's beautiful.
I hope you get
to finish it one day.
Okay.
There's a moment
that happens to us
out on the frontier...
...when you realize
all you have is
the sky over our heads
and the dirt at our feet.
To make a new world
for ourselves,
we have to let the old fall away
if we're to survive.
Guess you can say
it's like being born anew.
Sam.
Sam, what's wrong?
Where's Eliza?
She started bleeding
in the middle of the night.
Before I could do
anything to help, she was gone.
- I'm so sorry.
- I don't know what to do.
Will you take her?
She deserves a better life
than I could give her.
All this child needs...
is a loving father.
Sam, I...
I know you're scared.
This frontier does that to you.
It pushes you beyond
your limits.
But that is when
you have to hold on.
Because on the other side
of that fear
is knowing just
how strong you are,
and a life more beautiful
than you could possibly imagine.
We decided to name her Abigail.
You can come visit her
anytime in Austin.
May I?
They say you're the author
of your own story.
At any time, you can choose
to write something different
for yourself, but...
...changing your story
isn't as easy as it sounds.
Hey, big brother.
Shane, what the...?
What are you doing here?
Well, Aunt Teresa sent me.
Wanted to make sure
the job got done.
- Is that right?
- Yeah.
So, is it done?
No, it's not.
It's been a week.
What have you been
doing out here?
Waiting for the right moment.
Oh, all right, well,
just know that if you can't,
I'm here to help.
Hey, that's what brothers
are for.
Now, I was thinking...
...maybe we could just
take out Liam.
Then walk off alone, make it
look like an Indian attack.
That way there's fewer
questions, no witnesses.
It's actually smarter that way.
I can't decide
what's more pathetic--
you falling for a woman
that you've never met
or you falling for a woman
you're supposed to kill.
No, I knew
you wouldn't understand.
You don't think ahead.
You're like an ant,
you just keep pushing
what's in front of you.
Okay, well, I may not
understand the mastermind
that is Tom Davidson,
but I also don't forget.
This is just like Rosalin.
You don't say her name.
Forbidden love.
That's your type.
It didn't have to be forbidden.
Father just didn't approve
of her because she was poor,
so he drove her away.
Made her whole family disappear.
It was for your own good, Tommy.
For my own good?
What does that mean?
She was trying to get her hooks
into you and our money.
What the hell
are you talking about?
What does that mean?
Okay, look, it...
it was 15 years ago.
Okay, who knows? Who cares?
But you need to forget about her
and this Collins woman.
She's just a job.
You don't just forget
someone like her.
And she is not just a job.
There's something about her.
Shane, hey, what are you doing?
Shane. Shane, stop!
Stop!
It's been said the roots
of any family tree
are always more twisted underground
than they seem on the surface.
The odd group of people
who make up
the family of Independence
is no exception.
Hello, Deputy.
Afternoon, Joe.
You up for a little game
of horseshoes later on?
Oh, you want to lose again.
All right.
No crying this time.
Last time I let you win.
This time I won't be so nice.
Independence has become a home.
At times I feel like
I found a family here.
Thank you, Deputy.
I've sworn to serve
and protect them.
Deputy, I have your laundry.
Uh, I'll drop it off
in one hour.
Kai, take your time.
Thank you.
- Good morning.
But the truth is...
...they'd do the same for me.
Even the ones who don't
count themselves
as branches on our tree.
♪ If the sky fell down
and the moon went out... ♪
I'm glad, too, 'cause I got
that feeling again, Aubree.
A few feet away from you ♪
If the sky fell down ♪
Like something bad
is gonna happen.
And the moon went out ♪
I'd just be ♪
A few feet away from you... ♪
Can I help you with something?
I'm Tom Davidson,
new sheriff in town.
You must be my deputy.
Shall we?
Oh, just tell them... ♪
At least this time
I'm not running.
If my fight to find the truth
gets me killed,
it won't be the end of my story.
Oh, God!
For God's sake, shoot him.
No, Tom's the one!
- He's the killer!
- Kill him!
Gus.
Come on, Gus.
Come on, come on.
You did the right thing.
He was gonna kill you.
Let's get out of here.
Come on.
What the hell are you doing,
Gus?
No one is above the badge.
No, Shane, no!
For family.
Twisted roots or not,
there's a darkness underneath
in all of us.
It's love that can
light the torch,
show us the way.
I had to kill him, Tom.
I couldn't let him take you.
But we need each other
to keep that flame burning.
To find a path
through the darkness.
Help tell each other's stories
of who we were...
...and how we got here.
Captioning sponsored by CBS
and TOYOTA.
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH access.wgbh.org